.TH man 1
.SH NAME
man \- find & format online manuals
.SH SYNTAX
man [section] title
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Man
finds an online manual of the given title, formats it (if necessary), and
displays it on the screen. If the title occurs in several sections of
the online manuals,
the section argument specifies which section.
.PP
.B Man
looks in the users environment for two variables,
.B MANPATH
and
.B PAGER.
The first holds a list of directories where manuals are kept; directories
should be absolute and be separated by spaces, tabs, or colons. It can be
set up from shell like
.PP
$ MANPATH="/usr/man /usr/local/man" ; export MANPATH
.PP
If no
.B MANPATH
variable is found,
.B man
defaults to
.I /usr/man.
.PP
The
.B PAGER
variable indicates which pager should be used to display the manual. If
none is found,
.B man
defaults to
.I /usr/local/bin/less.
.PP
.B Man
searches through the
.I whatis
file in each of the directories in
.B MANPATH
for an appropriate manual. This file is described in
.I whatis(5).
.B Man
then looks for the manual in a
.I catx
directory; if it is there,
.B man
directly displays it with the pager. Otherwise,
.B nroff
is used to format the manual from the
.I manx
directory, and the output is passed to the pager.
.PP
If no manual is found in
.I whatis,
or the manual does not exist etc.,
.B man
will give an error message and fail.
.SH FILES
/usr/man \- usual directory for manuals

/usr/man/whatis \- file which lists all the manuals

/usr/man/catx \- directories of pre-nroffed manuals

/usr/man/manx \- directories of non-nroffed manuals
.SH SEE ALSO
nroff(1), less(1), whatis(5)

